---
layout: post
title: "Vim tips 4"
description: ""
category: tweak
tags: vim
---
{% include JB/setup %}

## Neocomplete with vim-multiple-cursors

We know that this 2 awesome plugins have conflicts with each other, which I have mentioned
in a previous post. The solution was manually toggle neocomplete before/after the usage of
vim-multiple-cursors. There is a better way to do this:

{% highlight diff %}
--- a/autoload/multiple_cursors.vim
+++ b/autoload/multiple_cursors.vim
@@ -96,6 +96,9 @@ endfunction
 " is created at the end of the visual selection. Another cursor will be
 " attempted to be created at the next occurrence of the visual selection
 function! multiple_cursors#new(mode)
+  if exists(':NeoCompleteLock')
+    NeoCompleteLock
+  endif
   if a:mode ==# 'n'
     " Reset all existing cursors, don't restore view and setting
     call s:cm.reset(0, 0)
@@ -361,6 +364,9 @@ function! s:CursorManager.reset(restore_view, restore_setting) dict
   if a:restore_setting
     call self.restore_user_settings()
   endif
+  if exists(':NeoCompleteUnlock')
+    NeoCompleteUnlock
+  endif
 endfunction

 " Returns 0 if it's not managing any cursors at the moment
@@ -754,6 +760,9 @@ endfunction

 " Take the user input and apply it at every cursor
 function! s:process_user_input()
+  if exists(':NeoCompleteLock')
+    NeoCompleteLock
+  endif
   " Grr this is frustrating. In Insert mode, between the feedkey call and here,
   " the current position could actually CHANGE for some odd reason. Forcing a
   " position reset here
{% endhighlight %}

## vim-ref with built-in main.vim

I have mentioned that there is an amazing vim built-in file named man.vim which is not sourced
by default. The `:Man xx` command in that file helps to show manpage with highlighting in a
new buffer rather than a poorly readable more-prompt(just what default mapping 'K' does).

Besides, vim-ref is another beautiful plugin written by [thinca](https://github.com/thinca).
It provides brilliant doc accesses to manpage/python/perl/erlang...
So the nmap of key 'K' is relatively set to looking up CWORD in the corresponding source.

As for manpage, it uses `v:count1` as the section number, when there is no entry in that section,
a fallback more-prompt will show.

So, I'd like to change the fallback of man in vim-ref from more-prompt to :Man command.

Here's the diff:

{% highlight diff %}
--- a/autoload/ref.vim
+++ b/autoload/ref.vim
@@ -585,6 +585,9 @@ function! s:open(source, query, options)
   if type(res) != s:T.string || res == ''
     throw printf('ref: %s: The body is empty. (query=%s)', a:source, query)
   endif
+  if res == 'Man_fb'
+    return
+  endif

   let pos = getpos('.')

diff --git a/autoload/ref/man.vim b/autoload/ref/man.vim
index fecdece..b62f634 100644
--- a/autoload/ref/man.vim
+++ b/autoload/ref/man.vim
@@ -66,6 +66,10 @@ function! s:source.get_body(query)
   if !empty(list)
     return list
   endif
+  if exists(':Man')
+    execute 'Man ' . query
+    return 'Man_fb'
+  endif
   throw matchstr(res.stderr, '^\_s*\zs.\{-}\ze\_s*$')
 endfunction
{% endhighlight %}

## Options & mappings

* *listchars*, make special chars visible, I use that mainly for trailing white space and tab.
* *wildignore*, file patterns ignored globally, which **will affect expand(), glob(), and globpath()**.
* *cscopequickfix*, use cscope with quickfix, although I prefer *unite-gtags*.
* *undodir/backupdir/directory*, double slash like `~/tmp/.undo//` allows to use the fullpath to name the temp file(collision resistant).
* *grepprg/grepformat*, replace grep with better tools like *ag*, although I prefer *unite-grep*.
* *path*, blablabla, for kernel headers:

{% highlight vim %}
execute 'set path+=/usr/lib/modules/'.system('uname -r')[:-2].'/build/include'
execute 'set path+=/usr/lib/modules/'.system('uname -r')[:-2].'/build/arch/x86/include'
{% endhighlight %}

* mappings for partial viml evaluation & source:

{% highlight vim %}
vnoremap <Leader>S y:execute @@<CR>
nnoremap <Leader>S :execute getline('.')<CR>
{% endhighlight %}
